Update Font Optimization (#41899)
vercel/next.js: docs/basic-features/font-optimization.md

Import the font you would like to use from `@next/font/google` as a function. We recommend using [**variable fonts**](https://fonts.google.com/variablefonts) for the best performance and flexibility.

```jsx:app/layout.tsx
```js:pages/index.js
import { Inter } from '@next/font/google';

// If loading a variable font, you don't need to specify the font weight
const inter = Inter();

export default function RootLayout({ children }: {
  children: React.ReactNode;
}) {
export default function Home() {
  return (

>     <html lang="en" className={inter.className}>

Reviewer: I think we should start off by showing an example using `app`, and then have a second example for `pages`.

Author: @hanneslund should we rather use `_document.js`? Something like this
```
export default function Document() {
  return (
    <Html lang="en" className={inter.className}>
      <Head />
      <body>
        <Main />
        <NextScript />
      </body>
    </Html>
  )
}
```
Question about the above and also about using `<html lang="en" className={inter.className}>` in `layout.js` - when you do that, does the default family of any text become `Inter`?

Reviewer: > should we rather use _document.js? Something like this

CSS imports doesn't work in `_document`, so not `@next/font` as well. See https://github.com/vercel/next.js/discussions/41849#discussioncomment-3974155

> does the default family of any text become Inter?

Yeah it basically adds a class to the html tag like this:
```tsx
<html className="the-classname-from-inter-call">
```
```css
.the-classname-from-inter-call {
  font-family: "Inter", "Generated Inter Fallback";
}
```

Author: @hanneslund Nice. Working on an update. Is there a specific use case for using the wrapper versus inside `<head>`

Author: Updated

Reviewer: Sorry for being unclear. Meant start by showing with app/layout, then second example with pages/_app.

Import the font you would like to use from `@next/font/google` as a function. We recommend using [**variable fonts**](https://fonts.google.com/variablefonts) for the best performance and flexibility.

> To use the font in all your pages, add it to `_app.js` or `_app.tsx` under `/pages` as shown below:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To use the font in all your pages, add it to your `_app.js` file under `/pages` as shown below:
```

```js:pages/_app.js
import { Inter } from '@next/font/google';

// If loading a variable font, you don't need to specify the font weight
const inter = Inter()

export default function MyApp({ Component, pageProps }) {
  return (
    <main className={inter.className}>
      <Component {...pageProps} />
    </main>
  )
}
```

If you can't use a variable font, you will **need to specify a weight**:

```js:pages/_app.js
import { Roboto } from '@next/font/google';

const roboto = Roboto({
  weight: '400',
})

export default function MyApp({ Component, pageProps }) {
  return (
    <main className={roboto.className}>
      <Component {...pageProps} />
    </main>
  )
}
```

#### Apply the font in `<head>`

You can also use the font without a wrapper and `className` by injecting it inside the `<head>` as follows:

```js:pages/_app.js
import { Inter } from '@next/font/google';

const inter = Inter();

export default function MyApp({ Component, pageProps }) {
  return (

>     <>

Reviewer 2: Is one method better than the other? Or would we like to recommend one over another?

When a font function is called on a page of your site, it is not globally available and preloaded on all routes. Rather, the font is only preloaded on the related route/s based on the type of file where it is used:

> - if it's a [unique page](https://beta.nextjs.org/docs/routing/pages-and-layouts#pages), it is preloaded on the unique route for that page

Reviewer: These shouldn't change

Author: @hanneslund I understood from this - https://github.com/vercel/next.js/pull/41788#discussion_r1006173082
That stable docs should only have `/pages` examples and beta.nextjs.org should have `/app` examples
I will double-check with Delba
